Secure File Sharing App - Setup and Run Steps

1. Open terminal in this project folder:
   d:\Cyber security project\file sharing and authentication

2. Install the Node.js packages:
   npm install

3. Build the React frontend:
   npm run client:build

4. Start the Node.js app:
   npm start

5. Open this address in your browser:
   http://127.0.0.1:5000

Notes:
- The app now uses Node.js + Express for the backend.
- The frontend is built with React + TypeScript.
- Uploaded files are encrypted automatically by the software before storage.
- Uploaded encrypted files are stored in the uploads folder.
- The local SQLite database is saved in this project folder as app_data.db.
- Use view_db.js if you want to print database records in the terminal.

How to use the app:
1. Register at least 2 users.
2. Log in with the first user and upload a file.
3. Share that file with the second user.
4. Log in with the second user to view the shared file.
5. Use Download if you want the original decrypted file.
6. Use Download Encrypted if you want the encrypted .enc file.
7. Check recent activity in the app.

How encrypted downloads work:
1. When you upload a normal file, the backend encrypts it automatically.
2. The encrypted version is stored on the server in the uploads folder.
3. Download gives you the normal original file.
4. Download Encrypted gives you the encrypted file with a .enc extension.

How to see the encrypted file:
1. Download the file using Download Encrypted.
2. Open the .enc file in VS Code, Notepad++, or a hex editor.
3. You will see unreadable/random-looking content instead of the original file data.
4. This is expected because the file is encrypted.

Best tools to view the encrypted file:
- VS Code: good for a quick demo
- Notepad++: simple text/binary inspection
- HxD: best option on Windows for viewing encrypted bytes in hex format

Important:
- Do not expect the .enc file to open directly in apps like PDF Reader, Word, or image viewers.
- Those apps expect normal files, but the encrypted download is protected binary data.
